Ficha provisória Análise e Modelação de Processos Código: ESG0002     Sigla: AMP Áreas Científicas Classificação Área Científica OFICIAL Engenharia Ocorrência: 2015/2016 - 1S Ativa? Sim Unidade Responsável: Departamento de Engenharia e Gestão Industrial Ciclos de Estudo/Cursos Sigla Nº de Estudantes Plano de Estudos Anos Curriculares Créditos UCN Créditos ECTS Horas de Contacto Horas Totais MESG 33 Plano de estudos oficial a partir de 2007/08 1 - 6 56 162 - 5 - - - 6 56 162 Docência - Horas Teórico-Práticas: 3,00 Outra: 1,00 Tipo Docente Turmas Horas Teórico-Práticas Totais 1 3,00 José António Rodrigues Pereira de Faria 3,00 Outra Totais 1 1,00 José António Rodrigues Pereira de Faria 1,00 Língua de trabalhoInglês Objetivos   The course aims to introduce the concepts of business model and business process and present a set of tools for analysis, modeling and management that enable students, based on process analysis, developing business models and specify management systems and information that support those models. Resultados de aprendizagem e competências After the completion of this course unit, students should be able to: a - Describe and explain the context that supports the development of new models and business processes supported by information and communication technologies. b - Explain the benefits of process- oriented organizations management and describe the regulatory frameworks and models of reference. c - Identify and design the processes of an organization from its business model. d - List, explain and apply the main methods, techniques and support tools to the modeling and analysis of processes in an organization. e - Specify information systems to support the implementation and management of business processes from their models. Modo de trabalhoPresencial Programa I- Concepts and principles; Models and processes: framework and strategy; II- Process-oriented management systems; Business Models and Business Processes; III- Identification and modelation of processes and services; Representation methods and process documentation; Application examples; ?as-is? and ?to be? models; IV- Specification of information systems which support process and services management; V- Process management: models, techniques and tools; Alignment, and Performance improvement and management. Bibliografia ObrigatóriaSharp, Alec; Workflow modeling. ISBN: 1-58053-021-4 Bibliografia ComplementarTenner, Arthur R.; Process redesign. ISBN: 0-201-63391-4 Métodos de ensino e atividades de aprendizagem - Theoretical classes: presentation of course unit themes along with the presentation and discussion of real practical applications. -Extra classes: a)Regular execution of limited complexity individual assignments related to course unit themes. b) Execution of a project of analysis and design of an organisation business process and specification of the corresponding information systems of support. The project is a teamwork assignment of medium/high complexity. Tipo de avaliaçãoAvaliação distribuída com exame final Componentes de Avaliação Designação Peso (%) Exame 45,00 Participação presencial 15,00 Trabalho escrito 40,00 Total: 100,00 Obtenção de frequência Attendance to classes (according to General Evaluation Rules of FEUP) and execution of the scheduled practical assignment. Fórmula de cálculo da classificação final Average grade of the following components: - continuous assessment (attendance and participation in class, teacher's opinion, and individual works): 15% of the final grade; - teamwork: 40% of the final grade; - written exam: 45% of the final grade. The approval also requires the achievement of the following minimum ratings: - Written test: minimum 40% - Individual practical work: at least 40% - Work as a team: minimum 40% If there is a difference of more than 4 points (on a scale 0 to 20) in the marks obtained in practical and written test, then the higher classification shall be reduced until the difference is 4 values. Provas e trabalhos especiais Execution of the individual assignments (homework) Execution of the practical project (teamwork environment) Avaliação especial (TE, DA, ...) Students with special status will be assessed as ordinary students. Melhoria de classificação Students may only improve the grade of the written exam. Observações Os Estudantes que se candidatem a exame de conclusão de curso não serão dispensados da realização de um conjunto de os trabalhos práticos a definir, caso a caso, pelos docentes.
