Ficha provisória Tese Código: PRODEI031     Sigla: D Áreas Científicas Classificação Área Científica OFICIAL Temas Multidisciplinares Ocorrência: 2015/2016 - A Ativa? Sim Unidade Responsável: Departamento de Engenharia Informática Ciclos de Estudo/Cursos Sigla Nº de Estudantes Plano de Estudos Anos Curriculares Créditos UCN Créditos ECTS Horas de Contacto Horas Totais PRODEI 80 Plano de estudos Oficial 2 - 120 120 3240 3 Docência - Horas Orientação Tutorial: 0,50 Língua de trabalhoPortuguês - Suitable for English-speaking students Objetivos ProDEI Students are supposed to develop their Theses work together with the help of their respective Supervisor(s). In the end, they are supposed to submit a Dissertation about a scientific topic including some original contribution. It is also mandatory to show they are knowledgeable about that scientific area state of the art. Resultados de aprendizagem e competências To deliver results including original work well justified and evaluated, taking the state of the art into consideration. Modo de trabalhoPresencial Programa ProDEI Students are supposed to develop their Theses work together with the help of their respective Supervisor(s). Students must first submit their thesis proposal to the Qualifying group. They may resume their work only if the proposal is aproved. Bibliografia ObrigatóriaEugénio Oliveira; Handouts for the course "Methodologies for Scientific Research", 2014 Métodos de ensino e atividades de aprendizagem ProDEI Students are supposed to develop their Theses work together with the help of their respective Supervisor(s). Each one of the students have to present his Dissertation proposal to a Qualifying Committee and get help for improvements Tipo de avaliaçãoAvaliação por exame final Componentes de Avaliação Designação Peso (%) Defesa pública de dissertação, de relatório de projeto ou estágio, ou de tese 100,00 Participação presencial 0,00 Total: 100,00 Obtenção de frequência Each one of the students have to present his Dissertation proposal to a Qualifying Committee and get help for improvements Fórmula de cálculo da classificação final The Thesis exam committee decides on the merits of the thesis. Students may be "approved with distinction" depending on the merit of their work, their thesis defense and their publications.
