Seminário de Elaboração do Projeto de Investigação Código: PRDEIG001     Sigla: SEP Áreas Científicas Classificação Área Científica OFICIAL Engenharia e Gestão Industrial Ocorrência: 2015/2016 - A Ativa? Sim Unidade Responsável: Departamento de Engenharia e Gestão Industrial Ciclos de Estudo/Cursos Sigla Nº de Estudantes Plano de Estudos Anos Curriculares Créditos UCN Créditos ECTS Horas de Contacto Horas Totais PRODEGI 20 Plano de estudos oficial a partir de 2015/16 1 - 24 28 648 Docência - Responsabilidades Docente Responsabilidade José Fernando da Costa Oliveira Regente Docência - Horas Orientação Tutorial: 1,00 Tipo Docente Turmas Horas Orientação Tutorial Totais 1 1,00 José Fernando da Costa Oliveira 1,00 Língua de trabalhoInglês Objetivos The objective of this course is to prepare a written report with a research project proposal that will be submitted, after the end of the first year, for approval by an examination board appointed by the program director. The examination will include an oral presentation and a discussion of the submitted report with the board. Resultados de aprendizagem e competências During this course, with the guidance of the supervisor, the student should: - define the research topic; - identify a problem to address; - review the scientific literature and/or current practice on that topic, in particular on how the chosen problem is addressed; - state the research questions; - define the research methodology; - if possible, start some exploratory work. Modo de trabalhoPresencial Programa The program, in the sense of the set of topics that the student will have to cover in order to achieve the learning outcomes and competences defined above, depend on each student research theme and will be defined by the supervisor, on an individual basis. Bibliografia Obrigatória ; The bibliography is specific of each student's research theme. Observações Bibliográficas The bibliography is specific of each student's research theme. Métodos de ensino e atividades de aprendizagem This course teaching and learning methodology is based on self-study and tutorial guidance, vey much focused on the research project proposal preparation. The report with the research project proposal should have around 30 pages, organized around the following sections: (Is my research topic appropriate for a doctoral thesis?) 1) General relevance and motivation for the research, both form the scientific and practical application points of view. 2) Problem description. (Am I aware of what has been published in the literature, and/or done in practice, in this field?) 3) State-of-the-art, in terms of literature review and/or industrial/services practical approaches to the problem resolution. (What do I intend to find out with my research?) 4) Research questions. (How will I carry out my research? What is my plan to achieve that?) 5) Research methodology. (What do I expect to be my contributions for the current knowledge on this topic?) 6) Expected contributions. (What have I already achieved?) 7) Current state of the student's research. Palavras ChaveCiências Tecnológicas > Engenharia > Engenharia industrial Ciências Sociais > Economia > Estudos de gestão Tipo de avaliaçãoAvaliação por exame final Componentes de Avaliação Designação Peso (%) Prova oral 100,00 Total: 100,00 Componentes de Ocupação Designação Tempo (Horas) Elaboração de relatório/dissertação/tese 80,00 Estudo autónomo 124,00 Trabalho de investigação 120,00 Total: 324,00 Obtenção de frequência Criteria for student?s assessment: 1) Research project, especially regarding: 1.1) its scientific merit, feasibility and clarity on the research goals. 1.2) the state-of-the-art focus on the problem under study and its completeness. 1.3) the research methodology alignment with the research goals. 2) Presentation and defense during the examination. 3) Student?s autonomy during the development of the research project proposal under evaluation. 4) Eventual results already obtained, in the form of presentations at conferences, submitted papers or prototypes working in companies, taking into account the type of outcome and its impact. The supervisor (and co-supervisor, if any) has exclusive information on the student?s autonomy when developing the research project proposal, and even on the adequacy of the student?s technical and scientific skills to carry out a research work leading to the writing, defense and approval of a doctoral thesis. Thus, supervisor?s opinion should be taken into particular account in this assessment. Fórmula de cálculo da classificação final The final mark will be given by the examination board according to the previous stated criteria and the following referential. The criteria on the student's autonomy and on the results already obtained should be used to increase or decrease the classification given by the application of the referential bellow presented, and normally should not deviate from it more than one value. In no case the deviation may exceed two values. As a rule, the two value increase should suppose the existence of one article submitted to an international scientific journal. Assessment referential: Negative rating - The student has not yet developed work in quantity and quality sufficient to be approved in the course. Despite having the necessary skills, the work presented is poor, showing little personal investment, and there are still no clear ideas on the subject or on the research strategy. 12 - Despite a significant personal investment, the student shows no ability to do research work leading to a doctoral degree. Thus, the work presented is poor, with no clear ideas on the subject or on the research strategy, or the proposed research project does not represent a scientific challenge adequate to a doctorate. However, the student developed enough work to pass the course. 14 - The research topic is appropriate for a doctoral thesis and the research methodology is feasible but the objectives are not yet very clear. The state-of-the-art has gaps or is not properly focused on the problem in question. The presentation and defense of the research project proposal were positive. 16 - The research topic is appropriate for a doctoral thesis and the research methodology is feasible with very clear objectives. The state-of-the-art addresses the relevant literature without significant gaps or lack of focus on the problem under study. The proposed research questions/challenges have the right characteristics for a doctoral thesis, both in terms of technical and scientific difficulties and in terms of originality and innovation. The presentation and defense of the research project proposal were very positive. 18 - The research topic is appropriate for a doctoral thesis and the research methodology is feasible with very clear objectives. The state-of-the-art addresses the relevant literature without significant gaps or lack of focus on the problem under study, with a level of organization, scope and depth of a survey publishable in a scientific journal. The proposed research questions/challenges have the right characteristics for a doctoral thesis, both in terms of technical and scientific difficulties and in terms of originality and innovation, representing a remarkable scientific challenge. The student made a very good presentation and answered all questions with ease, showing a good mastery of the research project proposal and a good knowledge of the scientific areas that support it. 20 - Classification truly exceptional that, at an outstanding level, fully fulfills the description given for the classification of 18. Provas e trabalhos especiais A report on the proposed research project has to be delivered for assessment by an examination board. The assessment will include a presentation by the student and a discussion with the board. Avaliação especial (TE, DA, ...) Not applicable. Melhoria de classificação Not applicable.
