Sociedade da Informação Código: MCI0002     Sigla: SI Áreas Científicas Classificação Área Científica OFICIAL Ciências Sociais Ocorrência: 2015/2016 - 1S Ativa? Sim Página e-learning: http://moodle.up.pt/ Unidade Responsável: Departamento de Engenharia Informática Ciclos de Estudo/Cursos Sigla Nº de Estudantes Plano de Estudos Anos Curriculares Créditos UCN Créditos ECTS Horas de Contacto Horas Totais MCI 23 Plano de estudos oficial 1 - 6 56 162 - 1 - - - 6 56 162 Docência - Responsabilidades Docente Responsabilidade António Manuel Lucas Soares Regente Docência - Horas Teórico-Práticas: 4,00 Tipo Docente Turmas Horas Teórico-Práticas Totais 1 4,00 António Manuel Lucas Soares 1,00 David Kelvin Allen 3,00 Língua de trabalhoInglês Objetivos The objective of this unit is to explore the concept of Information Society in terms of the relationship between the transformation of society and people?s changing interactions with information. A critical analysis of this relationship will be developed through five distinct lenses: spatial, technological, cultural, political and economic.     Resultados de aprendizagem e competências At the conclusion of the module the students should be able to:   demonstrate a clear and holistic understanding of the concept of the ?information society? effectively discuss and debate the issues raised during the module discuss the information Society with reference to history, evolution and perspectives. apply analytical tools and techniques to evaluate and explore the concept of  ?Information Society?   Modo de trabalhoPresencial Programa The information society: history, evolution and perspectives Visions of the information society The changing technological landscape Future technologies (augmented reality, next generation networks, the internet of things and analytics ) Beyond determinism Information society and globalisation Control of information: concepts of privacy and surveillance in a networked society Cultural identity globalisation Identity and privacy Politics and protest in the information society Democracy and engagement in civil society Social exclusion: the digital divide National and pan national information policies The ?knowledge economy? and the changing nature of work. Bibliografia ObrigatóriaWebster, Frank; Theories of the information society. ISBN: 0-415-28201-2 Zygmunt Bauman; Liquid modernity. ISBN: 978-0-7456-2410-5 Manuel Castells; Communication Power, Oxford University Press, 2009 Bibliografia ComplementarCastells, Manuel; The information age. ISBN: 0-631-21594-8 (Existe a versão em português) Manuel Castells; Aftermath: the cultures of the economic crisis, Oxford University Press, 2012 Métodos de ensino e atividades de aprendizagem The teaching method will be centred in a set of questions regarding a critical view of the Information Society that will direct the student's self exploration of the mandatory and complementary literature. Debate around those questions will be held in every class. In a first moment the students will produce opinative answers to those questions, then they will select one to develop a literature review (1000 words) and an essay (3000 words). Palavras ChaveCiências Sociais Tipo de avaliaçãoAvaliação distribuída sem exame final Componentes de Avaliação Designação Peso (%) Participação presencial 20,00 Trabalho escrito 80,00 Total: 100,00 Componentes de Ocupação Designação Tempo (Horas) Elaboração de projeto 92,00 Estudo autónomo 14,00 Frequência das aulas 56,00 Total: 162,00 Obtenção de frequência Participation in 75% of the classes. Positive grade in the first assignment. Fórmula de cálculo da classificação final Final grade = 0,2*PC+0,2*LR+0,6*FE PC - Participation in classes LR - Literature review FE - Final essay Avaliação especial (TE, DA, ...) The participation in all theoretical classes taught by Professor David Allen is required to be admited to submit the final essay. Melhoria de classificação The final grade can be improved by improving the final essay (60% of the final mark)
