Ficha provisória Tese Código: PRODEF026     Sigla: TS Áreas Científicas Classificação Área Científica OFICIAL Engenharia Física Ocorrência: 2015/2016 - A Ativa? Sim Unidade Responsável: Departamento de Engenharia Física Ciclos de Estudo/Cursos Sigla Nº de Estudantes Plano de Estudos Anos Curriculares Créditos UCN Créditos ECTS Horas de Contacto Horas Totais PRODEF 6 Plano de estudos a partir de 2009/2010 2 - 120 120 3240 3 Docência - Responsabilidades Docente Responsabilidade Paulo Jorge Valente Garcia Regente Docência - Horas Orientação Tutorial: 4,29 Tipo Docente Turmas Horas Orientação Tutorial Totais 1 4,29 Rui Jorge Sousa Costa de Miranda Guedes 1,00 Maria Inês Barbosa de Carvalho 1,00 Paulo Manuel de Araújo Sá 1,00 Paulo Jorge Valente Garcia 1,29 Língua de trabalhoInglês ObjetivosUndertake autonomous original research within the scope of a PhD thesis. Write the thesis manuscript and present it in the viva. Resultados de aprendizagem e competênciasa) Ability to systematically understand a scientific field of study; b) Acquire the competencies, skills and methods of research associated with an area of Physics Engineering; c) Ability to conceive, design, adapt and perform significant research respecting the requirements imposed by the standards of academic quality and integrity; d) Have completed a significant body of original research that has contributed to extending the frontiers of knowledge, some of which merits national or international dissemination in international peer reviewed journals; e) Be able to critically analyse, evaluate and synthesise new and complex ideas; f) Be able to communicate with their peers, the academic community and society at large on the area of specialization; g) Be able to, in a knowledge based society, to promote in an academic and/or professional context, the scientific and technological progress. Modo de trabalhoPresencial ProgramaThe PhD work programme was designed in the ?Research Project Seminar? curricular unit and should be followed during the Thesis curricular unit. Yearly, the student must present in written and orally a ?Progress Report? addressing the following items: 1. Research description | 1.1 Overview of main goals; 1.2 Proposed approach; 1.3 Summary of new literature and research findings 2. Progress report | 2.1 Main achievements; 2.2 Future developments; 2.3 Estimated work-plan for the remaining PhD time; 2.4 Self-evaluation; 2.5 Funding; 2.6 Plans for employment Appendix | Publications and patents; Presentations; Meetings; Extracurricular activities. During the thesis the student is expected to participate in journal clubs, seminars, schools, workshops and conferences in the area of research. The must present orally or in poster his work in international conferences, to publish in ISI proceedings and ISI peer reviewed journals. The student can also follow complementary skills courses deemed necessary to her/his personal development, and participate in activities associated to his research such as outreach. Bibliografia ObrigatóriaBooth, Colomb and Williams, ; The Craft of Research, University Of Chicago Press, 2008. ISBN: 978-0226065663 (Further to the specific topic bibliography the following general bibliography is presented.) On Being a Scientist: A Guide to Responsible Conduct in Research, National Academies Press, 2009. ISBN: 978-0309119702 (Free copy can be downloaded from NAP press.) Estelle M. Phillips, Derek S. Pugh; How to get a PhD. ISBN: 978-0-335-21684-6 Peter J. Feibelman; A PhD Is Not Enough!: A Guide to Survival in Science, Basic Books; Second Edition edition, 2011. ISBN: 978-0465022229 James E. Mauch and Jack W. Birch; Guide to the successful thesis and dissertation. ISBN: 0-8247-8972-5 Métodos de ensino e atividades de aprendizagemThe student will undertake supervised research with the goal of becoming an autonomous researcher executing original research of the extent required by a PhD thesis. The supervisor is from Porto University, a co-supervisor can be present from external universities. The research takes place in one or two host institutions. The host institution is typically a National Science Foundation (FCT) research unit or a foreign/international organization meeting comparable research standards. The student is expected to be integrated in an active research group, to actively contribute to the research group activities, to have an international network of contacts/collaborators and to have access to the resources required to complete successfully the proposed research programme. Tipo de avaliaçãoAvaliação por exame final Componentes de Avaliação Designação Peso (%) Defesa pública de dissertação, de relatório de projeto ou estágio, ou de tese 100,00 Total: 100,00 Fórmula de cálculo da classificação final Thesis manuscript and viva (100%).
