Mohammad Meraj Alam Nome: Mohammad Meraj Alam Sigla: MMA Código: 538449 Estado: Ativo Email Institucional: merajalamfe.up.pt Email alternativo: merajalam.eegmail.com Funções Categoria: Investigador Grupo profissional: Investigação Científica Departamento: Departamento de Engenharia Eletrotécnica e de Computadores Apresentação Pessoal Mohammad is from India and is the MEDOW ESR at the University of Porto. He has a Master in Power Systems from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT DELHI) and Bachelor of Technology in Electrical Engineering from Aligarh Muslim University, AMU Aligarh. During his studies at IIT, he spent some time in INP Grenoble, France with an Erasmus Mundus scholarship exchange. Since Completing his Masters degree in 2012, Mohammad has been working the R & D Engineer / Technologist in GE ENERGY in product development for an MV / LV Real Time Drives and drive simulators for application on FPGA platforms for wind and solar power. He Has Also Been Involved in the design and modeling of MV drives, filters, inverters and front end on MATLAB and PLECS platform. His research interests include renewable energy generation, distributed generation, smart grids and micro grids, power system analysis, protection, dynamics and power electronics. Motivated to Pursue a PhD in order to build on his Masters work and to continue to learn and research, Mohammad applied to join the network in order to MEDOW benefit from the shared experience of its international partners and to make a Contribution to society and the planet through the development of renewable energy technologies. His MEDOW project on "Protection of networks supplied from multi-terminal DC grids" will lead him to Investigate the impact on AC protection systems of being linked to DC grids and to identify solutions to reduce this impact. He will look into the feasibility of upgrading protection provided by AC grids to accommodate offshore wind power grid through DC and will aim to develop a protection algorithm suitable for DC grids. Mohammad que hopes his team as a Marie Curie Fellow will give him a firm foundation for a career in the field of renewable energy integration, with a specific interest in the provision of cost effective power for people in disadvantaged and remote regions. He is very interested in the future of the universal Possibility Allowing power grid to be Exchanged from areas with surplus to areas in need.
