Pedro Camanho Nome: Pedro Manuel Ponces Rodrigues de Castro Camanho Sigla: PCC Código: 240020 Estado: Ativo Telefone: 22 508 1753 Voip: 3406 Salas: L405 Funções Categoria: Professor Catedrático Carreira: Pessoal Docente de Universidades Grupo profissional: Docente Departamento: Departamento de Engenharia Mecânica Secção: Secção de Mecânica Aplicada Interrupção: Licença sabática Início da Interrupção: 15-09-2015 Fim da Interrupção: 14-09-2016 Cargos Cargo Data de Início Membro do Conselho Pedagógico 2014-10-20 Membro da Comissão Cientifica Programa Doutoral em Engenharia Mecânica 2011-02-28 Apresentação PessoalPedro Camanho (MSc in Mechanical Engineering, UPorto, 1995) received his PhD in Composite Materials from the Department of Aeronautics, Imperial College London, UK, in 1999. In the same year he joined the Institute of Mechanical Engineering and Industrial Management (INEGI - www.inegi.up.pt) as Director of the Structural Integrity Unit and the Department of Mechanical Engineering of the University of Porto as Assistant Professor. Since 2014 he has been Full Professor at the Department of Mechanical Engineering of the University of Porto. Pedro Camanho is currently the Vice-President of INEGI. The main research interests of Pedro Camanho are the mechanics of deformation and fracture of advanced composite materials, and new concepts for lightweight composite materials for aerospace applications such as hybrid, variable stiffness and ultra-thin composites. Pedro Camanho is a member of the Editorial Board of Composites Part A (Elsevier), European Journal of Computational Mechanics (Taylor and Francis) and of Computers, Materials and Continua (Tech Science Press). He  was invited to give several plenary lectures: 7th EUROMECH Solid Mechanics Conference (2009), International Conference of Composite Structures - ICCS (2009, 2011 and 2013), Composites Testing and Model Identification Conference - CompTest (2013), Conference on Numerical Methods in Engineering - CMN (2007 and 2013), Spanish Conference on Fracture Mechanics (2012) and Spanish Conference on Composite Materials (2011). Pedro Camanho also presented a plenary lecture at the 2013 EADS Composite/Metallic Days Conference in France. Pedro Camanho was the chairman of the 3rd Composites Testing and Model Identification Conference - CompTest (2006) and of the 1st ECCOMAS Conference on the Mechanical Response of Composites (2007). Pedro Camanho has been a Visiting Scientist at NASA-Langley Research Center since 2000, and was a Visiting Scientist at the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory. He was a Royal Society Visiting Professor at Imperial College London (2005) and a Visiting Professor at the Laboratoire de Mécanique et Technologie, Ecole Normale Supérieure de Cachan (2014). Pedro Camanho has coordinated several research projects funded by the European Space Agency, Airbus, NASA, Daimler AG, Aernnova, European Union and US Air Force. He presented invited seminars at several Universities, including Stanford University, MIT, Imperial College London, University of Bristol, University of British Columbia, University of Victoria, Instituto Tecnológico de Aeronáutica, TU Delft, TU Munich,University of Limerick, Oxford University, EPF Lausanne, Monash University, Université Catholique de Louvain, and ENS-LMT Cachan. Pedro Camanho is the recipient of the 2006 NASA H.J.E. Reid Award for Outstanding Scientific Paper, of the 2005 Young Researcher in Applied and Computational Mechanics Award from the Portuguese Association of Theoretical, Applied and Computational Mechanics, and the 2005-2009 Engineering Fracture Mechanics Most Cited Articles Award. He has published over 80 papers in international peer reviewed journals that received over 3600 independent citations (h-index of 33, independent citations). His work has been successfully transferred to the industry and services: finite elements implemented by ABAQUS (Dassault Systèmes), materials models implemented in LS-DYNA, failure criteria in HYPERSIZER, ESACOMP and ANSYS, and test methods that are used by both the automotive and aeronautical industries. Pedro Camanho is member of the Council of the European Mechanics Society (EUROMECH), of the Council of the European Society for Composite Materials (ESCM), and member of the Engineering Panel of the European Research Council (ERC). Google Scholar Citations Investigação Categoria: Membro Integrado Centro de Investigação e Desenvolvimento: Laboratório Associado de Energia, Transportes e Aeronáutica Instituto de Interface: Instituto de Ciência e Inovação em Engenharia Mecânica e Engenharia Industrial
