Vladimiro Miranda Nome: Vladimiro Henrique Barrosa Pinto de Miranda Sigla: VPM Código: 208389 Estado: Ativo Telf.Alt.: 222094049 Salas: S4.25 Funções Categoria: Professor Catedrático Carreira: Pessoal Docente de Universidades Grupo profissional: Docente Departamento: Departamento de Engenharia Eletrotécnica e de Computadores Cargos Cargo Data de Início Membro do Conselho Cientifico 2014-07-08 Membro do Conselho de Departamento Departamento de Engenharia Eletrotécnica e de Computadores 2014-11-20 Apresentação Pessoal Vladimiro Miranda was born in Porto, Portugal. He graduated inElectrical Engineering in 1977 and received the Ph.D. degree in ElectricalEngineering from FEUP, the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto,Portugal, in 1982. He holds currently the following positions: 1. Full Professor (Professor Catedrático) at FEUP. 2. Director/Member of the Board of INESC Porto, coordinating entity of INESC TEC, an R&D private non-profitorganization recognized as Associate Laboratory by the Ministry of Science andwith the University of Porto as the main associate. 3. Director-President of INESC P&D Brasil,an R&D private non-profit organization with headquarters in São Paulo,Brazil. 4. Director at OCEANUS ? Marine Research andDevelopment, a consortium within the University of Porto for multidisciplinaryR&D and Technology Transfer associated with the oceans, the economy of thesea and the deep sea exploration. In 1981 he joined FEUP as a lecturer. In 1985, he also joined INESC, a topR&D institute in Portugal where he came to be coordinator of the area ofPower Systems during the 90?s. In 1996 and 1997 he stayed as VisitingFull Professor in the University of Macau, China. At the same time, he wasappointed President of the Board of INESC Macau, a joint Portuguese-ChineseR&D institute. Upon returning to Portugal, he became President of theScientific Council of INESC Porto in 1998 and Director/Member of the Board ofINESC Porto, since 2000 to the present day. In 2005 he was again VisitingProfessor at the Federal University of Pará (UFPA), Brazil. Prof. Miranda is presently International AcademicAdvisor of the Department of Electrical Engineering of the PolytechnicUniversity of Hong Kong, Visiting Professor (honorary) of the University ofNovi Sad, Serbia, and member of the Scientific Council of IRESEN (agency of theGovernment of Morocco for renewable energies). Prof. Miranda has been serving in the Administration Board of spin-offcompanies created within the INESC system. He has also served as researchproject evaluator for the governmental science organizations of Portugal,Norway, Croatia, South Africa, Chile and Argentina. For the Government of thislatter country, he acted as external auditor in the process of evaluation ofresearch institutions. He has been responsible for many research projects at international level, inthe European Union, United States and Brazil, and has authored or co-authoredover 200 publications, especially in areas related with the application ofComputational Intelligence to Power Systems. Prof. Miranda is an IEEE Fellow. He is the recipientin 2013 of the IEEE Power Engineering Society Ramakumar Family Renewable EnergyExcellence Award. (end) Investigação Categoria: Membro Integrado Centro de Investigação e Desenvolvimento: INESC TEC - INESC Tecnologia e Ciência Instituto de Interface: Instituto de Engenharia de Sistemas e Computadores, Tecnologia e Ciência
